---
title: "Mining FAQs: Timestamp and orphan rate"
subtitle: Common Problems for Mining in Ethereum Classic
---

This post answers some common problems people have when operating or
using a mining pool. Note that those answers below are the common
cause. There might be other rare causes of the problems that I'm not
aware of. I would really appreciate it if you can share your
situations if you think it is one of the later.

<section markdown="1">

## Faking Timestamps

> I heard that it is possible to fake the block timestamp when mining,
> like shifting the system clock a little bit, to gain advantage of
> mining rewards. Is that true?

No. No matter how the miner choose to shift the timestamp, it hurts
the miner.

Timestamp, besides the not-recommended `TIMESTAMP` opcode in EVM, is
only used for one thing -- to calculate the block difficulty for the
next block. Miners first finalize a block (which also set a timestamp
for the block), and then start the Proof of Work algorithm
`ethash`. When the miner is lucky and the algorithm is finished, the
miner then broadcast the block.

During this process, what if the miner shift its block timestamp a
little bit in the past? Well, not a lot would happen. The block would
be accepted without problem, as long as the shifted timestamp is still
after the previous block's timestamp. However, in this case, the miner
also cannot gain any advantage -- the difficulty for the next block
would be raised higher than normal, thus makes it harder than normal
to mine the next block. So a rational miner will not do that.

What if the miner shift its block timestamp a little bit to the
future? This is basically gambling for the miner because all current
Ethereum full nodes also have another consensus rule -- that if a
block's timestamp is in the future relative to the system clock, then
it is rejected. You can test this by slightly shift your system clock
by one minute to the past. Now run your Parity or Geth client, you
will see that the node will start to reject valid network blocks,
because it thinks that they're mined "in the future" and thus breaks
the consensus rules.

So there is indeed a really small window, between a block is
finalized, and the block is mined, that the miner can choose to shift
its block timestamp. First, this is really tricky because for a miner,
if it has already mined the block but the actual world clock has not
yet passed the set block timestamp, it would need to withheld the
block until then, and during this time, cannot mine new blocks. This
hurts the profit of the miner. What if the miner is smart enough to
always set the timestamp before when the block is mined? In this case,
it is equivalent to the miner withheld its hashrate -- I claim that I
mined this block using this amount of time, but the actual time I
spent is shorter. However, a side effect of a miner doing this is that
its block difficulty would be lower. In chain selection, we always
choose the chain with the most accumulated difficulty (called "total
difficulty"). By withhelding hashrates, the miner risks losing the
competition and its block risks to get orphaned.

In conclusion, both shifting the block timestamp to the future, and
shifting the block timestamp to the past hurt the miner, rather than
helping them to gain rewards.

</section>

<section markdown="1">

## Block Orphan Rates

> I heard that I can reduce my mining pool's block orphan rate by
> reducing the amount of transactions I include in a block to the
> point to including no transactions. Is this true?

Yes, but you're also likely to lose transaction fees, so there is a
trade-off.

Every transaction you included in a block has costs. The first cost is
when the client executes the transaction. The second, and the largest
cost is the network propogation time. The more transactions you
include, the larger the block size, hence the longer the network
propogation time. As a result, just because of the additional one or
two seconds, other miners might get a block from your competitors
first, and then decide to build new block on top of that instead of
yours. Small pools should especially be cautious about this.

This is the marginal transaction cost. And for a mining pool, it is
important to set the mining block transaction gas limit to a point
near the optimal one. It is usually not zero -- by including no
transactions you also lose transaction fees that you might get. It
also might not be the maximum current block gas limit, because by
doing that, the marginal transaction cost is too high that it overall
becomes negative. Setting a good mining block transaction gas limit is
not a easy job for miners right now, however. While Gavin Anderson has
done [some study](https://gist.github.com/gavinandresen/5044482) about
the marginal transaction cost for the Bitcoin blockchain, we lack
similar studies of it for Ethereum-like blockchain. So this job for
you currently might involve some trail and error.

Besides marginal transaction cost, you might also consider just reduce
the network propogation time. Doing this is much simpler. Get your
machine on a location with higher Internet bandwidth, or get multiple
full nodes in different locations for your mining pool.

In conclusion, you can get optimal profit from your mining pool by
setting a good mining block gas limit depending on your marginal
transaction cost, and try different ways to reduce the network
propogation time.

</section>
